sl beta docs (#3705)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/avail-sl-integrations.md

sidebar_label: "Available integrations"
---

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.6">

import NewSLChanges from '/snippets/_new-sl-changes.md';

<NewSLChanges />

Discover the diverse range of data applications that seamlessly integrate with the powerful dbt Semantic Layer, powered by MetricFlow &mdash; from business intelligence tools to notebooks, spreadsheets, data catalogs, and more. These integrations allow you to query and unlock valuable insights from your data ecosystem.

Query dbt metrics via external integrations using the sophisticated [dbt Semantic Layer APIs](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/sl-api-overview) (JDBC, GraphQL, and Discovery APIs). With these APIs, you can query metrics to avoid duplicative coding, optimize your development workflow, ensure data governance for company metrics, and guarantee consistency for data consumers.

The dbt Semantic Layer integrations are capable of querying dbt metrics, importing definitions, surfacing the underlying data in partner tools, and more. Here are some of the integrations you can query from:

> - Tableau &mdash; 

Reviewer: Tableau definitely isn't making it so we can remove

Reviewer: We can also add "Any SQL developer tool that supports a generic driver (e.g., DataGrip)"

Reviewer: Gsheets is a maybe. A beta would be exciting but I think it would be tough to get it all figured out by then. We can say "Coming soon!"

Author: done!

---
title: "Available integrations"
id: avail-sl-integrations
description: "Discover the diverse range of partners that seamlessly integrate with the powerful dbt Semantic Layer, allowing you to query and unlock valuable insights from your data ecosystem."
tags: [Semantic Layer]
sidebar_label: "Available integrations"
meta:
  api_name: dbt Semantic Layer API
---

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.6">

import NewSLChanges from '/snippets/_new-sl-changes.md';

<NewSLChanges />

> Discover the diverse range of data applications that seamlessly integrate with the powerful dbt Semantic Layer, powered by MetricFlow &mdash; from business intelligence tools to notebooks, spreadsheets, data catalogs, and more. These integrations allow you to query and unlock valuable insights from your data ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are a number of data applications that seamlessly integrate with the dbt Semantic Layer, powered by MetricFlow, from business intelligence tools to notebooks, spreadsheets, data catalogs, and more. These integrations allow you to query and unlock valuable insights from your data ecosystem.
```

> <span>Query dbt metrics via external integrations using the sophisticated <a href="https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-api-overview" target="_self">{frontMatter.meta.api_name}</a></span>. Use the API to query metrics to avoid duplicative coding, optimize your development workflow, ensure data governance for company metrics, and guarantee consistency for data consumers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<span>Query dbt metrics with external integrations using the sophisticated <a href="https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-api-overview" target="_self">{frontMatter.meta.api_name}</a></span>. Use the API to query metrics to avoid duplicative coding, optimize your development workflow, ensure data governance for company metrics, and guarantee consistency for data consumers.
```

The dbt Semantic Layer integrations are capable of querying dbt metrics, importing definitions, surfacing the underlying data in partner tools, and more. Here are some of the integrations you can query from:

- Hex &mdash;
- Mode &mdash;
- Google Sheets - Coming Soon!
- Any tool that allows you to write SQL and meets one of the two criteria: 
  * Supports a generic JDBC driver option (such as DataGrip) or 
  * Supports Dremio and uses ArrowFlightSQL driver version 12.0.0 or higher.

> For information on the partner integrations, their documentation, and more &mdash; refer to the [dbt Semantic Layer integrations](https://www.getdbt.com/product/semantic-layer-integrations) page.

Reviewer 2: sugg switching the clauses as a way to handle all those commas

```suggestion
Refer to [dbt Semantic Layer integrations](https://www.getdbt.com/product/semantic-layer-integrations) for information on the partner integrations, their documentation, and more. 
```

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/semantic-layer/sl-architecture.jpg" width="95%" title="The universal dbt Semantic Layer connecting to integration tools."/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/semantic-layer/sl-architecture.jpg" width="95%" title="dbt Semantic Layer supports many different tool integrations."/>
```

## Related docs

- <span><a href="https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-api-overview" target="_self">{frontMatter.meta.api_name}</a></span> to learn how to integrate with the JDBC to query your metrics in downstream tools.

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.5">

import LegacyInfo from '/snippets/_legacy-sl-callout.md';

<LegacyInfo />

A wide variety of data applications across the modern data stack natively integrate with the dbt Semantic Layer and dbt metrics &mdash; from Business Intelligence tools to notebooks, data catalogs, and more.

The dbt Semantic Layer integrations are capable of querying dbt metrics, importing definitions, surfacing the underlying data in partner tools, and leveraging the dbt Server. 

For information on the partner integrations, their documentation, and more &mdash; refer to the [dbt Semantic Layer integrations](https://www.getdbt.com/product/semantic-layer-integrations) page.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/semantic-layer/sl_architecture.png" width="75%" title="The universal dbt Semantic Layer connecting to integration tools."/>

## Related docs

> - [dbt Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl) to learn more about the dbt Semantic Layer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [About the dbt Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl)
```

:::

Query dbt metrics via external integrations using the sophisticated [dbt Semantic Layer APIs](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/sl-api-overview) (Discovery, JDBC, and GraphQL API). With these APIs, you can query metrics to avoid duplicative coding, optimize your development workflow, ensure data governance for company metrics, and guarantee consistency for data consumers.

A wide variety of data applications across the modern data stack natively integrate with the dbt Semantic Layer, powered by MetricFlow &mdash; from Business Intelligence tools to notebooks, spreadsheets, data catalogs, and more.

The dbt Semantic Layer integrations are capable of querying dbt metrics, importing definitions, surfacing the underlying data in partner tools, and more. Here are some of the integrations you can query from:

- Tableau &mdash; 
- Google Sheets &mdash;
- Hex &mdash;
- Mode &mdash; 

For information on the partner integrations, their documentation, and more &mdash; refer to the [dbt Semantic Layer integrations](https://www.getdbt.com/product/semantic-layer-integrations) page.

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/semantic-layer/sl_architecture.png" title="dbt Semantic Layer architecture" />

Author: need new architecture image
